# CognitiOS
CognitiOS is an open-source, human-centric, transparent and safe AI OS.

From a human knowledge perspective, AI may be understood as a set of mathematical algorithms for making the knowledge an AI model executable.  
In other words, this OS is meant to manage the entire AI life cycle as a support of the people's or companies' knowledge in a safe and private way. We understand by Knowledge the information gathered in a data set that is used to train AI models.

CognitiOS utilizes an agent-like entity, dubbed Cognitron, which orchestrates a series of modules forming what we may refer to as a Machine Cognitive Architecture (MCA). The MCA is basically an AI model stack, in which the user integrate AI models according to the tasks he's meant to do, or expect someone else to do, in his daily live or at a company.

Cognitron works as a web application and chatbot that constantly adapts by it-self following user's behavior, providing a customized experience to its owner. This classifies CognitiOS as an Internet OS that might be called from whatever built-in web browser device.

In short, what can you do with CognitiOS? First stage of this project will cover:
- A customizable and responsive user interface for the user to govern knowledge (data sets) and AI models.
- Automation of the Machine Learning workflow. User feeds data and on autopilot gets deployed models automatically either on-premise or cloud.
- Customizable web apps generated by Cognitron for the user to interact with AI models in production, input data and visualize predictions.
- Traceability of the AI life cycle. Who ETLd the data, who ran the workflow, how much energy it consumed, times, ownership. etc.
